feat: Add background information on Disaster Recovery (#190)
citynetwork/docs: docs/background/disaster-recovery.md

# Disaster recovery

> When you go on to create a new server in {{brand}}, you will probably

Reviewer: Not sure what "go on to" means here. We might be able to drop it (as we might drop "probably")?

```suggestion
When you create a new server in {{brand}}, you will
```

Also, please make "create a new server" a link to the corresponding how-to guide.

Author: Done and done!

notice an option named **Disaster recovery**. That particular option is
enabled by default.

![Disaster recovery is enabled by default for new
servers](assets/disaster-recovery-option-on-by-default.png)

Even if you choose to disable it for a particular server, keep in mind
that you have the option to enable it at a later time.

![The disaster recovery feature can be manually activated for any
server](assets/disaster-recovery-option-manual-activation.png)

In the following, we explain what this option does, how it works in the
background, and why you should consider enabling it.

## What it is

> The *Disaster Recovery* feature, DR for short, is managed from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Disaster Recovery* (DR) feature is available via the
```

{{gui}} only and applies to servers and volumes that use our

> [Ceph](https://ceph.io) backend.

Reviewer: The only way for this to _not_ be the case would be if a server uses an `s` flavor (see https://docs.cleura.cloud/reference/flavors/#compute-tiers), so let's explain that here. Any server that uses another flavor, and any volume, does use Ceph.

Author: Got it!

## How it works

As soon as you enable DR for a server or a single volume, then you start
getting snapshots for the corresponding [*RADOS Block Device*
(RBD)](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/glossary/#term-Ceph-Block-Device)
image. Those snapshots are created automatically once per day, and you
always have the snapshots of the last 10 days. Please keep in mind that
all RBD snapshots are created in the same Ceph cluster and are not
replicated remotely. If, for any reason, you delete the original volume,
then all snapshots will also be deleted, and the snapshot creation
schedule will be canceled immediately.

## Why enable it

Provided snapshots are available, you can restore a server or a single
volume to any of those snapshots. For instance, you may discover that
due to faulty application logic or simply a bug, you are now
experiencing data corruption. Then, one of your options would be to go

> back in time by restoring one of the available snapshots and keep going

Reviewer: This paragraph should contain a link to a short how-to guide for resetting a volume or server to the most recent snapshot state.

Reviewer: I'd say we want to roll that into this same PR. Information on backups/snapshots is mildly useless unless accompanied by information on how to restore. :)

Author: ...aaaaand I rolled that in :)

Reviewer: I meant roll it into the same *PR*, not roll it into the same file. We want a *separate* how-to guide, *as part of this PR,* that cross-references the background info (and vice versa). The step-by-step guide for restoring doesn't belong in background information.

Author: Ahem, rollin' in and updating --- but properly, this time aroond!

from there.

You should know that the DR feature creates *point-in-time* snapshots on
the storage level. This is highly advantageous because the process is
almost instantaneous, with no write-lock on the RBD image. On the other
hand, the time required to restore a particular image depends on its

> size. During restoration, the volume is automatically detached before

Reviewer: You'll need to explain how this works for a boot-from-volume server (which cannot detach its root volume).

Author: Understood. I provided the above piece of info based on the attached Wiki ("Disaster recovery questions"). Since I do not know what happens behind the scenes with boot-from-volume servers, I will either need some pointers or we will have to ask for an expert's insight here.

Author: @fghaas After reading @Jeeaaasus's explanation and trying to restore a boot-from-volume server to a particular snapshot, I realized that no detachment takes place. Instead, the instance shuts off, the restoration process completes, and then you have to manually power it back on. I am updating the original paragraph accordingly.

> # Disaster recovery

Reviewer: Please add YAML front matter with a `description` field (like you already did in the howto).

Author: Ouch (and done).

# Disaster recovery

When you [create a new server](../../howto/openstack/nova/new-server) in
{{brand}}, you will notice an option named **Disaster recovery**. That
particular option is enabled by default.

![Disaster recovery is enabled by default for new
servers](assets/disaster-recovery-option-on-by-default.png)

Even if you choose to disable it for a particular server, keep in mind
that you have the option to enable it at a later time.

![The disaster recovery feature can be manually activated for any
server](assets/disaster-recovery-option-manual-activation.png)

In the following, we explain what this option does, how it works in the
background, and why you should consider enabling it.

## What it is

> The *Disaster Recovery* (DR) feature, is available via the {{gui}} and

Author: Alert and alarm and sirens going crazy (and thanks for spotting that).

applies to servers and volumes that use our [Ceph](https://ceph.io)
backend. That would be **all** servers but the ones of the `s`
[flavor](../../reference/flavors/#compute-tiers).

## How it works

> As soon as you enable DR for a server or a single volume, then you start

Reviewer: "As soon as" followed by "then" sounds a little awkward to me.

```suggestion
As soon as you enable DR for a server or a single volume, you start
```

Author: It is indeed :$
